And in production to the book of Obadaya, Obadaya was a prophet of Jehovah.
He recorded his prophecy about 607 BCE after the Babylonians destroyed Jerusalem.
Obadaya was a contemporary of Jeremiah, Daniel, and Ezekiel.
The book of Obadaya is the shortest book in the Hebrew Scriptures.
It has just one chapter.
Obadaya conveys a judgment message against the nation of Edom.
During the destruction of Jerusalem by the Babylonians,
the Edomites rejoice at Israel's suffering.
Edomites capture fleeing Israelites.
They hand them over to the Babylonians,
and Sharon taking spoil from the conquered Jews.
Did you know?
The Edomites were related to the Israelites.
They were descendants of Jacob's twin brother Esau.
He was given the name Edom, meaning red,
after he sold his birthright for some red lentil stew.
Obadaya prophesies that the nation of Edom
will be plundered at the hands of her former allies.
This prophecy begins to be fulfilled when the Babylonians conquer Edom.
In time, Edom ceases to exist.
In the closing verses, Jehovah promises to restore his people
as a unified nation and reestablish true worship in Jerusalem.
The book concludes with the statement,
the kingship will become Jehovah's,
indicating that Jehovah's kingship will stand vindicated forever.
As you read Obadaya, note how Jehovah is aware
of the persecution his people suffer.
How Jehovah gives his people hope and times of distress,
and how Jehovah's lasting kingship will stand vindicated forever.